if the meerkats were truly cooperating
each individual member of the group
would be doing better than if they were
living on their own to test this theory
Tim needed to measure the costs and
benefits of them helping each other by
measuring if they were gaining or losing
weight how was he to get the meerkats to
agree to that he began by trying to lure
them with every food he could think of
anything the might tickle Amir cats
tastebuds mealworms chicken peanut
butter condensed milk we tried
everything we could find to see if they
would eat it but they weren't interested
at all
despite Tim's best culinary efforts the
meerkats turned up their noses at
everything the team had noticed that
there was one food that they would go
all out to get hold of lovers eggs it
led them to try something new for
proffers eggs
Tim tribe hens eggs we thought we'd see
whether they were interested in the
contents of eggs but what we found out
was that they weren't and the slightest
bit interested but then Tim saw meerkats
devouring a hen's egg that had cooked in
the Sun
in the end her lives changed totally
when we discovered this after two years
of valiant failures this was a Eureka
moment
crumbs of boiled egg don't change the
meerkats behavior in the wild but they
do make them cooperative this discovery
was the kickstart the Kalahari meerkat
project needed
[Music]
more researchers began to join Tim on
his project now they could begin to
gather proper data on the meerkats when
working with a group they would weigh an
individual three times a day
now Tim could start to find answers to
his big questions
why does a meerkat actually want to live
in a group why do they help each other
out and when they do how do they know
what job to do the study could now get
underway all because of the meerkats
love of a tiny snack
you